[Music]
for any fan of Italian cycling which is
all cyclists life on two wheels is not
complete until you've spent a
significant amount of time on a Bianchi
the issue of this is of course expense
Italian racing bikes are beautiful
exotic performance bred machines where
the cost of the overall package is far
down the list of priorities
you don't go to Milan to buy cheap shoes
or cheap bikes there are exceptions to
this uninspired lumps with Italian names
and off-the-shelf entry-level components
that fit a bargain price point slot on
shop floors and to be perfectly honest
we were concerned Bianchi had produced
just that with their new entry-level
racer the Bianchi sempre what we found
was indeed an exception but of a very
different kind the sempre is a carbon
monocoque frame from Bianchi's born for
a performance line meaning race bike the
head tube is short the wheelbase is
narrow and the angles are steep
interestingly the front centre is quite
short while the change days are a few
millimeters longer than some race bikes
the top tube and down tube are large
without bein freakish while the most
svelte shapes on the sempre are reserved
for the rear end the seat stays are
quite wide but very flat an angle to the
wheel plane at 45 degrees before
terminating in a slender mono stay the
use of nanotech small particles that
fill voids in the carbon helps create
enormous stiffness and strength out of
these slender tubes the steer tube is
one of the few places the budget price
point of the bike is revealed the
campagnolo Veloce spec gets aluminium
made it to straight carbon blades if you
opt for the frame set alone or the old
Tegra build the fork is full carbon wait
for our 59 centimeter below to build is
a beefy
eight and a half pounds with petals and
a bottle cage the cost three thousand
one hundred and forty nine dollars the
technology lavished on this entry level
race frame already sets the bike apart
but the entire package takes this a step
further with Ricardo Corsa Italian for
race department it's a name Bianchi has
been using to describe its very best for
a long time it's also the name they've
used to tie the entire package together
and add that Italian flair many of the
components have been rebadged with this
name the reality is these are a
run-of-the-mill components the kind we
expect to see on a price-point bike but
the simple continuity of a part of
course a paint job gives the entire bike
a style and feel fitting an iconic brand
like Bianchi the only component that
escapes this treatment are the FSA
gossamer cranks but the included BB 30
makes it easier to overlook the position
is aggressive and inspires a racy
attitude from mile one a traditionally
Italian position it provides very
positive feedback from the road its
information a rider looking for a
comfort bike doesn't want but a
performance rider will find invaluable
jump on the pedals and the Sempra
responds in a big way the rear end with
its rather slender chainstays provides
very solid power transfer and gives the
bike a taut responsive feel as good as
the sempre is under power it does lack
that scintillating kinetic explosion
some Pro Tour level carbon fights
provide this same power transfer is on
display in the mountains as well but as
the road gets steeper this performance
falls off a pound or two isn't as big a
deal as the industry makes it but the
sempre is 4 or 5 pounds beyond some
bikes and that matters when the great
reaches double digits of course those
bikes are also four or five thousand
dollars more the separate geometry
provides a tight wheelbase and a very
neutral weight distribution on the road
that translates into handling that
only be described as intuitive as a
criterion bike the sempre will
absolutely shine with its weight
distribution and intuitive handling
banging a few elbows in a tight rough
corner
can't easily be managed as much as we
love the fact that Bianchi has created a
truly Italian racer for just over three
thousand dollars with the sempre Veloce
we would opt to build our own with the
available frame set swap out the compact
FSA cranks and the FSA brakes for a full
Veloce group with the standard cranks it
and you will be race ready with the
added bonus of the full carbon steer
tube for a lower overall weight and
don't even think about getting any color
other than the Celeste green or any
group other than Campagnolo that would
be like going to Rome and eating at
McDonald's as long as you're not a
hundred and fifty pound mountain goat
the Bianchi sempre delivers enormous
performance and Italian flavor for much
less than riders have been forced to pay
in the past I'm Ben Edwards thanks for
watching peloton magazine.com
Oh